# Setup for this end of the application.
## Initial database setup
1. Install docker (if not already on your machine)
2. `cd` into this directory, and run `npm install` 
3. Create images for postgres and pgadmin, and connect them as is mentioned in this article:
> https://towardsdatascience.com/local-development-set-up-of-postgresql-with-docker-c022632f13ea

## Main idea for the rest of this application
1. The main architecture of this application is drawn at the top of the document sent to you over messenger.
2. That has, esentially, been implemented in the files under the src/ directory. 
> Note: Do not change the dist/ directory, that is autogenerated when compiling typescript.

## Things that need to be done 
#### Most of the stuff required has already been coded out. Just need help with database connections. Here are some helpful steps.

1. Setting up the database connection using an ORM - I thought of using `Prisma` because excellent documentation and support for pSQL. 
2. The setup for `Prisma` is highlighted in the following document. This will help you setup:
> https://www.prisma.io/docs/getting-started/setup-prisma/add-to-existing-project/relational-databases-typescript-postgres
3. Make the required changes for the setup. There are comments throughout the code base that would help you.
4. There might be some places with missing code, or stuff that is yet to be implemented. Most, if not all, of that is related to the ORM and DB stuff. Which is why I ask you for help bc this was all done in the span of like few hours and my brain is toast.
5. The SQL for creating the db that we need for the logs is in the Logger.ts file, in the class description for Logger.
6. Final tip - Just correlating that diagram to the files and reading file comments would be mega helpful. 
